have you ever felt that gut-wrenching
fear of putting yourself out there only
to be rejected maybe it's asking someone
out applying for a job or sharing your
ideas that fear it's real but here's the
thing your brain is actually wired to
fear rejection and once you understand
why you'll realize rejection isn't as
scary as it seems all right let's break
this down rejection feels painful for a
reason scientists have found that
rejection triggers the same part of your
brain as physical pain that's right
getting ghosted or turned down actually
hurts like a punch to the gut why
Evolution way back in time being part of
a tribe meant survival if you were
rejected and left alone your chances of
survival dropped to zero your brain is
still running that ancient survival
program making rejection feel way more
dangerous than it actually is but that's
exactly why you shouldn't be afraid
rejection isn't a death sentence it's
actually a tool
ever notice how rejection feels personal
even when it's not your brain
immediately asks what's wrong with me
but here's the truth rejection says more
about the situation than it does about
you a company rejecting you doesn't mean
you're not talented a person saying no
doesn't mean you're not lovable it just
means they weren't the right fit that's
it think about some of the most
successful people in history JK Rowling
rejected by 12 different publishing
companies before Harry Potter became a
global phenomenon Michael Jordan cut
from his high school basketball team
Oprah told she wasn't fit for television
imagine if they had let rejection stop
them ever had that what if spiral what
if they think I'm weird what if I
embarrass myself that's your brain
trying to protect you from pain but
here's the plot twist most people don't
think about you as much as you think
they do psychologists call this the
Spotlight effect We Believe others are
observing everything we do when in
reality they're too busy worrying about
themselves here's the crazy thing
rejection isn't bad it's good ever been
rejected only to end up in a way better
situation later it happens all the time
that person who turned you down maybe
they weren't meant for you that job you
didn't get something better may be
around the corner rejection isn't a stop
sign it's a detour to something
greater try this go do something scary
on purpose it's called rejection therapy
seeking rejections to desensitize
yourself go ask for free coffee at a
cafe or request a discount at a store
just to get told no and you know what
happens the fear shrinks because here's
the secret once you face rejection
enough it can't break you
anymore most people avoid rejection by
by never putting themselves out there
but that means they miss out on
opportunities relationships and
experiences the only way to never get
rejected is to never try and that's a
far bigger loss than any rejection could
ever be so next time you fear rejection
remember this it's not a reflection of
your worth it's just your brain running
an outdated survival program now go out
there and face rejection because the
only way to fail is to never try